Security Overview
This article provides an overview of how access to data and functionality is structured in Salesforce, which is primarily comprised of the following:

Organization Security
Object Security
Record Security
Field Security
Folder Security

Organization Security

Org-level permissions determines under what conditions a user can login to Salesforce, and is explored in depth in User Setup & Login Process – Free.  A few key settings are:

When users can login (Login Hours)
Where users can login from (Login IP Ranges)
How users can login (API, UI, etc.)
Object Security

Object-level permissions determines what actions (Create, Read, Edit, Delete) a user can perform on records of each object.

In order to create a record of that object type, the user only needs the “Create” object-level permission.

Record Security

There are 3 tiers of record-level permissions:

Read Only
Read/Write
Full Access
“Read Only” and “Read/Write” access can be granted through a variety of means (org-wide defaults, sharing rules, etc.).  Users with the object-level permission “View All” (pictured unchecked above) are granted “Read Only” record-level permissions to all records of that object.

“Full Access” is granted to:

The record owner.
Users higher in the role hierarchy than the record owner (when “Grant Access Using Hierarchies” is enabled).
Users with “Modify All” object-level permission (this includes system administrators).
Members of a queue to all records owned by the queue.
It is not possible to share “Full Access” via sharing rules or other mechanisms at this time.


 	                      CREATE RECORD	  VIEW RECORD	  EDIT RECORD	  DELETE RECORD
Object-level permission	  Create	          Read	        Edit	        Delete
Record-level permission	  N/A	            Read Only	    Read/Write	    Full Access

Example 1:
Scenario:  A user must have the ability to create a lead records.
Required permissions:

“Create” object-level permission on Lead.

Example 2:
Scenario:  A user must be able to view an opportunity record owned by another user.
Required permissions:

“Read” object-level permissions on Opportunity.

“Read Only” (or higher) record-level permissions on the record.

Example 3:
Scenario:  A user must be able to edit an account record owned by another user.
Required permissions:

“Edit” object-level permissions on Account.

“Read/Write” (or higher) record-level permissions on the record.

Example 4:
Scenario:  A user must be able to delete an opportunity record owned by another user.
Required permissions:

“Delete” object-level permissions on Opportunity.

“Full Access” record-level permissions on the record.

Demystifying Record Deletion within Salesforce:

“Full Access” is typically granted to the record owner, users higher in the role hierarchy, and system administrators.  As shown in example 4 above, “Full Access” record-level permission and “Delete” object-level permission are required in order to delete  record.

This explains why some users may not be able to delete records, even when granted “Read/Write” record access via sharing rules or org-wide defaults.

Important Notes:

Not all objects will adhere exactly to the above rules (e.g. products, which do not have a record owner).
If a user can edit (but not delete) a record and has the “Transfer Record” permission, they may be able to transfer the record to become its owner.  They may be able to then delete the record.

Field-Level Security

Field-level permissions determines which fields a user can view and edit on records of an object.  Field-level permissions have 2 settings:

Read Access
Edit Access

RESULT	          READ ACCESS	    EDIT ACCESS
Field Editable	  Checked	          Checked
Field Read-Only	  Checked	          Unchecked
Field Hidden	    Unchecked	        Unchecked

A user must be able to view the record in order to view any fields on the record.  Likewise, if a user cannot edit a record, they will not be able to edit any fields.

Note:  Page layouts also influence which fields a user can update within the User Interface, which is discussed in the future.

Folder Security

Folders are used to secure a variety of data within Salesforce, including but not limited to:

Reports
Dashboards
Email Templates
Documents

