Permission sets are optionally used when we want to reduce the number of profiles that we've created and thereby reducing overhead
admin scenarioes.

For example: If a User, say, Dane has been assigned a marketing profile. She can read,edit records in account object but cannot delete it
Now Dane wants to have delete previldge, as a necessity. We cannot keep on creating a new profile just for the exception cases like the above.
For that, we have a solution called permission sets. Permission sets are those, where we can assign special permission to a User
say, delete permit to Dane though she is in marketing profile which does not have that obj level permission.

Through this, we give permit for Dane to delete records and also avoid create new profile just for her.



Example 2

Your organization has recently built an application in Salesforce to track job applicants.  Each department will have several users that will be provided access to manage their department’s career postings.

Using just profiles, you would need to create a new profile for each user that needed access to the application (cloning the existing assigned profile and then adding the required privileges).  Instead, you could create a single permission set that grants the appropriate privileges and grant that permission set to each user as needed.

Important Notes

Permission sets can only grant (not revoke) privileges.
Permission sets are optional, and a user can be assigned more than 1 permission set (a user is assigned zero to many permission sets).
The profile controls some elements (e.g. page layout assignment) that a permission set cannot influence.

Create a new permission set :
Setup -> Administer -> Manage Users -> Permission sets
Click New and create a perm set for a type of user liscense.

Perm set for Lightning exp :

Click Lightning exp under top left and go to a link where they say "Use Profiles or Permission Sets to Give Users Access to Lightning Experience"
https://help.salesforce.com/htviewhelpdoc?id=lex_enable_users.htm&siteLang=en_US

Lightning exp can be enabled for all std prof, it can be restricted to custom prof users by the admin

setup-> Administer -> Manage Users -> Permission sets -> New -> fill out all details including which liscense users would use this
click save
Then, under that perm set view,Go to System settings -> Edit -> Check lightning exp user -> Save
Under perm setd view, Click Manage Assignmnets button -> Add users to give this perm to enable/disable lightning exp on their own.

To enable Lightning exp :
Under lightning exp on top left of the setup page, go to last option to enable lightning exp.
After enabling it, the users who have been assigned perm to switch to Li exp, will get an option under setup tab to switch.
Clicking it will switch to Li exp.
