What is a profile?

A profile is a collection of permissions and settings that is instrumental in determining a user’s functional access (apps, tabs, object-level permissions), how information is displayed to the user (page layouts, record types, field-level security), and a wide range of other permissions.  Each user must be assigned one profile.

        SECURITY                          USER INTERFACE
        Org-level permissions             Apps
        Object-level permissions          Tabs
        Field-level permission            Page layout
        User permission                   Record types

To manage a profile:
Got to Setup -> Administer -> Manage Users -> profiles
Click a profile, say, Ur profile as System admin
If u want an enhanced view of the profile, instead of detailed view, go to Customize -> User Interface -> check 'Enable Enhanced Profile User Interface' 
U'll see what all users are assigned for that profile, say, for system admin, u'll be assigned ur name, just click 'ASSIGNED USERS' button
U can search the settings search box in the enhanced profile page for any objs or apps.
U can switch from obj to obj/apps by clicking the down arrow of that obj name.
If u want a description for ur profile, click Edit properties - >Type the description of the profile

In the profile - > Go to 'Assigned apps' -> Edit -> Add/remove the apps
There is always one default app that must be available when the user (admin) logs in.
Eg: We can add sample console toour existing apps.

To go back to sys admin profile, we can click settings display in the console,and then click recent items 'sys admin' and go back.

--------------------------------------------------------------
Profile overview -> Under Apps -> Object settings : Permissions to access objects and fields, and settings that specify which record types, page layouts, and tabs are visible
Click Obj settings -> U have 5 columns,Obj name,permission,fields,tab settings,page layouts.
Click on any obj,say,oppurtunity,U'll see Tab settings,Page layout assignments,Obj permissions,field permissions.

Tab settings: Default On,Default Off, Tab hidden. can change whether obj/tab is displayed or not.

Obj permission :  U cannot change anything here (Read,create,delete,edit,view all,modify all)

Field permissions : U have read access and edit access that u can tick in various fields and give permissions accordingly.
Some fields are read-only eg: Last modified by, where that siled is system generated and cannot be edited.

User permissions specify what tasks users can perform and what features users can access. For example, users with the “View Setup and Configuration” permission can view Setup pages, and users with the “API Enabled” permission can access any Salesforce API.
You can enable user permissions in permission sets and custom profiles. In permission sets and the enhanced profile user interface, these permissions—as well as their descriptions—are listed in the App Permissions or System Permissions pages. In the original profile user interface, user permissions are listed under Administrative Permissions and General User Permissions.
To view permissions and their descriptions, from Setup, enter Permission Sets in the Quick Find box, then select Permission Sets, then select or create a permission set. Then from the Permission Set Overview page, click App Permissions or System Permissions.
