Objectives : How to setup and maintain a User, Troubleshoot common access visibility issues for a User

Steps:
1. Click setup on the top right corner of the Force Dev account
2. Under Administer section, click Users (Diplays Users that are currently in salesforce Instance)
3. If a User is not active, then the active box displays no tick.
4. There are two options of viewing a User acc, view only mode(when u directly click on the username) and Edit Mode
5. Click the user(my user), i can see all the Hover-over links(lists) like permission set assignments,personal grps etc..
6. Click on the Login History (Users logged in at what time, whether login is success/facing any issues etc..)
7. We can export the login details of many users in .csv file

Login History:
Check the login hist on the User rec, if it shows failure, the reason might be due to a bad username/password or they might have logged in 
to a different environment (test envi using dev credentials)

To create a new User:
1. Go to Administer -> Manage Users -> Users
2. Click New User button
3. Fill all the req info (Name,email,username..)
4. Eg: Set role of the user as marketing team,licsence as salesforce,profile as marketing profile, tick the featured liscense as
   Marketing User
5. Change the time settings acc to their specific time standards
6.Click recieve newsletter and generate password for the user immidetly button and save

After creation: (Many options can be used like below)
1. Four buttons: Edit, sharing,reset pwd and freeze
2. Reset password: If the users typed wrongly/forgot  password and have been LOCKED OUT, then reset pwd is used by admin
                    This can be checked in login history whether user has locked out
Exception to pt 2:
if the user uses sandbox, then he might not have a vaild email and so auto notify pwd thro mail is not successful
In that case, we can click Edit and click "Generate new password and notify users immediately" and save.

3. Freeze : If the User is moving out of the company but has been assigned with many scheduling jobs and reports to be
run on specifed time, then that should not break. The admin can freeze the user, reassign all the jobs to other active user
and then deactivate this User (by clicking edit and unchecking the active box)



